name : Type of software application, e.g. 'Game, Multimedia'.

description : A description of the item.

author : The author of this content or rating. Please note that author is
special in that HTML 5 provides a special mechanism for indicating authorship
via the rel tag. That is equivalent to this and may be used interchangeably.
(enter as YAML list)

contributor : A secondary contributor to the CreativeWork or Event. (enter as
YAML list)

maintainer : Individual responsible for maintaining the software (usually
includes an email contact address). (enter ass YAML list)

codeRepository : Link to the repository where the un-compiled, human readable
code and related code is located (SVN, GitHub, CodePlex, institutional GitLab
instance, etc.).

copyrightYear : The year during which the claimed copyright for the CreativeWork
was first asserted.

copyrightHolder : The party holding the legal copyright to the CreativeWork.

funder : A person or organization that supports (sponsors) something through
some kind of financial contribution.

funding : Funding source (e.g. specific grant)

dateCreated : The date on which the CreativeWork was created or the item was
added to a DataFeed.

dateModified : The date on which the CreativeWork was most recently modified or
when the item's entry was modified within a DataFeed.

datePublished : Date of first broadcast/publication.

version : The version of the CreativeWork embodied by a specified resource.

releaseNotes : Description of what changed in this version.

downloadUrl : If the file can be downloaded, URL to download the binary.

installUrl : URL at which the app may be installed, if different from the URL of
the item.

identifier : The identifier property represents any kind of identifier for any
kind of Thing, such as ISBNs, GTIN codes, UUIDs etc. Schema.org provides
dedicated properties for representing many of these, either as textual strings
or as URL (URI) links. See background notes for more details.

keywords : Keywords or tags used to describe this content. Multiple entries in a
keywords list are typically delimited by commas.

license : A license document that applies to this content, typically indicated
by URL.

programmingLanguage : The computer programming language.

operatingSystem : Operating systems supported (Windows 7, macOS 10.6, Android
1.6).

runtimePlatform : Runtime platform or script interpreter dependencies (Example -
Java v1, Python2.3, .Net Framework 3.0). Supersedes runtime.

processorRequirements : Processor architecture required to run the application
(e.g. IA64).

softwareRequirements : Required software dependencies

relatedLink : A link related to this object, e.g. related web pages

publisher : The publisher of the creative work.

issueTracker : link to software bug reporting or issue tracking system

referencePublication : An academic publication related to the software.

softwareSuggestions : Optional dependencies , e.g. for optional features, code
development, etc.
